---
layout: default
title: Project
---

The final project is designed to give you experience implementing a machine learning model on a real-world dataset—without me telling you what method to use. We want you to explore any creative or unconventional methods you can think of! This is a completely open-ended problem, and the most important thing I want to see is **effort**. Details for 2026 have been released! So let's go over the project details:

### Topics

There are three project topics covering a range of machine learning tasks:

1. [Identify birds in nature (computer vision)](materials/project/ECE364_Project_T1_SP26.pdf) [[Kaggle]](https://www.kaggle.com/t/29ad929ef84f43b38c4911ccd2a19666) — You will be given images containing birds in nature. Your task is to identify and draw bounding boxes around the birds.
2. [IMDB positivity (sentiment analysis)](materials/project/ECE364_Project_T2_SP26.pdf) [[Kaggle]](https://www.kaggle.com/t/9b319518820842d5a6817e30f7e09d1d) — You are given a collection of IMDB movie reviews and your job is to classify the reviews as possitive or negative.
3. [LLM or not( prediction)](materials/project/ECE364_Project_T3_SP26.pdf) [[Kaggle]](https://www.kaggle.com/t/9b6232ef4d5a4ffc8a32e80552802bb5) — You are given a collection of essays and need to figure out which essays were written by students and which were generated by LLMs.

### Dataset

On the Kaggle competition page.

### Kaggle Competition

To make things more exciting, we are hosting a competition on Kaggle! You will submit your best runs to Kaggle (details are in the project description files).  
The top individual or team for each topic will receive a prize:
- **Individuals**: Full letter grade bump
- **Teams (two or more members)**: Half-letter grade bump

We hope this will encourage you to try new methods and explore the current state-of-the-art models in machine learning.  
We will be verifying the winners and ensuring the submitted numbers come from models that follow the competition rules.  
**Important:** Make sure to set a random seed so that your training is reproducible.

### Teams

You may work in teams of up to three people and only need to complete one of the three project topics. There’s a variety to choose from, so pick the one that interests you most!

### Deliverables

You must submit:
- Your code
- A two-page report describing what you did, what you tried, whether it worked, and what you would do differently next time.

### Due Dates

There are two important deadlines:
- **Kaggle competition closes:** May 6th (Wednesday before Reading Day)
- **Two-page report due:** May 11th (Monday)


## Winners! 

To be announced

## Prior Competitions

- [2025 competition](./project2025.html)